<h1>ATel Lookup</h1>

The ATel Lookup application is a powerful and comprehensive web-based search interface that allows users to intelligently query reports from The Astronomer’s Telegram by object name and location. It also displays timeline and graph visualisations that will help astronomers and the general public better understand celestial objects, events and their relationship. 

The application was developed as part of a final year Capstone project at Curtin University. The development team that has worked on the project over the semester consists of three Computer Science students; Rohan Khayech, Ryan Martin and Nathan Sutardi, Software Engineering student, Greg Lahaye and Cyber Security student Tully Slattery. With the team built-up with students from multiple majors, our specialised skills were put to great use over the course of the project, covering both front and backend development, user interface and algorithmic design and security considerations.  

The project was commissioned by researcher Dr. Arash Bahramian and Director of Science, Professor James Miller-Jones at CIRA, the Curtin Institute of Radio Astronomy. CIRA consists of a multi-disciplinary team of both engineers and scientists focused on the field of radio astronomy. 

The ATel Lookup application allows for all ATel reports listed on The Astronomer’s Telegram to be automatically imported in the background, with key features such as celestial object names, coordinates, keywords and event observation dates parsed and extracted from the title and body text of each report. This allows for a richer search interface allowing searching for reports not only by text, keywords and submission date, but by celestial objects themselves. The object name search cross-references the SIMBAD Astronomical database, to allows users to search reports by any accepted alias used to refer to a celestial object, returning reports that contain any of these alternate names, or contain coordinates within range of the object. The object coordinate search also makes use of SIMBAD, to find all celestial objects within a certain radius and return any reports that mention these objects, alongside all reports containing coordinates within the given radius. 

The application provides a listing of ATel reports matching the search criteria, allowing the original reports to be viewed on The Astronomer’s Telegram. The application also provides rich visualisations allowing the user to make greater contextual observations about the reported events. The timeline provides a chronological visualisation of when reports were submitted, allowing astronomer’s to easily identify periods of frequent activity related to a celestial object. The network graph allows astronomers to identify clusters of related reports associated with specific celestial events. These visualisations are both interactive, allowing users to easily view an original report by simply clicking on a node.
